okay stay with me here if you gathered
together and
weigh all the spiders in the world you
would get 250 million tons of arachnids
wait wait wait wait before you run away
for comparison
the titanic's weight was 52 000 tons and
the great pyramid of giza is as heavy as
6.5 million tons
well you're right that doesn't make me
feel better either
but on we go the biggest spider people
know about
is the south american goliath bird eater
yeah
this brown furry puppy-sized arachnid
usually has a foot long leg span its
body is the size of a large fist
and its weight is more than six ounces
when the creature is moving it makes
bizarre eerie sounds they're the
clicking of the spider's feet
they have hardened tips that hit the
ground like a horse's hooves
just not as loud if you see this
imposing creature in the rainforest and
come
close to it you might notice it rubbing
its hind legs
against its belly how cute that would be
your first thought
but then you'd scream in pain this
spider protects itself by sending out
clouds of
hairs that have microscopic barbs on
them
if they got in your eyes and nose they'd
be super painful and itchy
these hairs would also stay there for
hours or even days
now that sounds extremely unsettling
but imagine what our planet would look
like if spiders were the size of jeeps
the world occupied by giant arachnids is
a dark and gloomy place
it's also dangerous you can't let your
guard down
even for a second your enemy is
lightning fast
hungry and cunning normal-sized spiders
eat 880 tons of
insects each year but in your world
huge monsters need much more food to
live
spiders roam the planet gulping down
pretty much any life form they see
if people gave up and didn't fight them
earth would turn into a lifeless
barren land within a year up to six
percent of people
all over the globe have arachnophobia
extreme fear of spiders
but if these creatures were that much
larger this number would be way bigger
you think picture a creature more than 5
feet tall with a leg span of 14 feet
the spider is covered in coarse thick
hair which makes the animal look
disgusting
its body is divided into two parts
separated in the middle by a slim waist
a set of massive jaws terrifyingly long
and sharp
fangs and eight spherical eyes as huge
as basketballs
but the creepiest of them all spiders
without eyes
they live in caves and other dark places
if you meet such a specimen
your reaction won't be fast enough to
escape
these creatures compensate for their
lack of vision by
feeling vibrations they also have an
astonishing sense of smell
terrified of spiders people constantly
invent new ways to get rid of them
being caught by a creature several times
your size is
everyone's biggest nightmare one of the
scariest things about spiders is the way
they deal with
insects they catch most of these
predators don't eat their prey whole
at first it gets cocooned in silk and
injected with the spider's digestive
fluid
it paralyzes the prey and makes its
insides liquid
that's not good then the creature pulls
everything edible into its stomach
through the hairs covering its mouth
and pincer-like jaws in other words
once a monster spider gets you there's
no way to escape
oh and don't forget about horrifying
spiderwebs
who hasn't ended up with their face
covered with sticky threads at least
once in your life
in your new reality though spotting a
web in time
means getting a chance to survive even
regular-sized spiders can create webs
that cover trees and houses
and stretch over rivers for 80 feet
that's why if a new world creature
chooses your house
as its new home it's easier and safer
to move out as fast as you can
people have found a way to deal with
giant spider webs but
how they do it depends on which species
has created it
if the web was produced by a spider
that's more active at night
people destroy them with help of uv
lamps that replace sunlight the webs
made by spiders living in dry areas are
afraid of liquid
those from human environments don't like
getting dry
and so on another problem one day you
may come home and discover a huge
monster
or 50 of them living in your basement
okay
admittedly you're likely to spot these
creatures before they reach any
impressive size
they'll be too loud to go unnoticed
spiders don't give birth to their babies
they create egg sacs that can contain
hundreds of eggs
if such a sack somehow ends up in your
home
you've got a problem on your hands in a
couple of weeks
those eggs hatch into baby spiders after
that
it can take from two weeks to one year
for the babies to reach their full size
oh by the way people have figured out
how to use spider webs
the silk they're made of is very light
if it was a tiny regular spider
a strand of its silk long enough to
circle earth
would weigh a mere 18 ounces in a spider
dozens of times larger silk threads
weigh more
but they're also much much stronger they
can withstand extreme temperatures
from minus 40 to 430 degrees fahrenheit
people know how to collect spider silk
they use this material to make ultra
strong ropes
almost all fabrics in the world are made
from spiders threads
wear resistant and lightweight clothing
seat belts and parachutes
bottles and cups surgical threads and
bandages
rust free panels on cars and boats
artificial ligaments and tendons
all thanks to spiders but probably the
best thing about silk
it's biodegradable earth has become a
much cleaner place
since people started using this material
in production
along with using spider silk threads
people also gather the glue
covering the webs it's a unique
substance it stays wet in the open air
and is still sticky after having trapped
several insects
up close this glue looks like tiny beads
on a string
a rather golf sized balls on the rope if
we're talking about
car sized arachnids they produce much
stickier glue than good old regular
sized spiders
that's why in most cases it replaces
hammers and nails
all kinds of vehicles and vessels are
built with the use of spider glue
the only drawback of this sticky
substance you have to be extra careful
while gathering it
once you get trapped it's a tricky feat
to escape
that's why people go glue hunting in
large groups
but even if you get into a spiderweb by
accident
there's a chance to survive if you're
fast enough
moths and butterflies have a special
layer of scales on their wings
they can shed this layer if they get
caught use this trick
take off your clothes and run for your
life but how come spiders don't get
tangled in their own webs
these arachnids can spin sticky and
non-sticky silk
they avoid walking on the sticky parts
of their webs plus they have special
movable claws on their feet
these claws grip and let go of the
threads when they're moving
also spiders feet are covered with
thousands of hairs
when they walk these hairs create
countless points of contact between the
animal and the surface
that's why you can see gigantic spiders
lounging on rooftops
or climbing skyscrapers by the way when
the terrifying creatures do move
they do it at breakneck speed the giant
house spider is one of the fastest
spider species in our world
it can move at a speed of almost two
feet per second
that's more than a mile per hour but
creatures as large as a jeep
can speed up to 50 plus miles per hour
in other words you wouldn't be able to
escape from them by driving away
in the giant spider world people have to
install tons of artificial lights
dense thick spider webs are everywhere
they appear
throughout the night and cover large
areas making days
dim trees and not so sturdy
constructions often collapse
under the weight of spider silk luckily
it's just an imaginary world
spiders can't grow to be as large as a
car long story short
their hormones prevent these creatures
from becoming larger than they're
supposed to be